Crap!
[chuckles]
Pick. Ass. Oh.
♪ Yes, no, maybe ♪
♪ I don't know ♪
♪ Can you repeat the question? ♪
♪ You're not
the boss of me now ♪
♪ And you're not so big ♪
♪ You're not
the boss of me now ♪
♪ And you're not so big ♪
♪ Life is unfair ♪
Stupid Christmas vacation.
There's nothing to do.
I wish I cared about something.
Then I could do that.
You missed it!
It was so awesome!
What?
Reese just came up with
the most fun thing to do.
Riding your bike
through the graveyard
with your eyes closed.
He smashed into
this one gravestone,
flew through the air,
hit another gravestone
and landed in an open grave.
Lying in that hole
was surprisingly peaceful.
I no longer fear death.
I've been sitting here bored
out of my mind for four hours.
Why didn't you invite me?
-Didn't we?
-No. You didn't.
You walked right by me.
I thought you were going
out to the garage.
Huh. Oh, well.
It's not a big deal.
It's just that my feelings
are kind of...
Oh, crap!
Your what are kind of what?
Nothing. Forget it.
I think someone
has feelings, Dewey.
I do not!
We've gotta make this right.
Group hug?
Shut up!
Oh, listen to those feelings.
Come here, you.
Get away from me!
In our house,
that's the "F" word.
Okay, if we get Reese
the walkie-talkies
with only two channels,
we can move $8.20
from his pile to Dewey's pile.
Then Dewey can get
the Spider-Man figure
that sticks to walls.
We have enough stuff
Dewey can live with
the regular Spider-Man.
Just make sure that
Malcolm's pile has
enough in it that...
Hal, we don't have
a pile for Jamie.
What? Oh, damn it!
[sighs]
You know, Jamie's
not even old enough
to know it's Christmas.
We could just...
-Hal.
-All right!
This is ridiculous.
$93 to get gifts
for four boys.
Well, it's our own fault.
We just weren't frugal enough.
What else can we do?
We're already doing
no-electricity Wednesdays,
lunch lotteries,
the family flush.
Okay, we'll make it
work somehow.
Just put it
into four piles.
[telephone rings]
Hello.
Hey, Mom, good news.
I decided to come home
for Christmas after all.
Francis, that is, um... great.
What a nice surprise
that you will be
coming home for Christmas.
Yes, we'll have the
whole family here...
exchanging gifts.
Piama, too?
Of course.
We can't wait to see you.
Well, we can't wait to see you.
Six piles?
Five. Piama and
Jamie can share.
Excuse me?
I know you didn't think
anyone would catch you,
but you just slammed your door
into my car.
The least you could do
is say you're sorry, lady.
You don't have to take
that tone.
It's not like I'm hurting
your resale value.
I'm sorry.
See? Like that.
[Christmas carol
playing in background]
Oh!
[creaking]
[tires skidding]
[screaming]
♪ [continues] ♪
[sputtering]
[screams]
[both screaming]
I don't know what happened.
I just lost control of myself.
It was like
an out-of-body experience,
and I was there
watching this woman go insane.
And the woman was me.
But you know what, Hal?
I'd do it
all over again.
It felt great.
It was almost worth
destroying my car.
Well, honey, the important thing
is no cops were there to see it.
No one says a word.
This is my one.
My one to your 11,000.
So, due to unforeseen
circumstances, we are now
completely broke.
Therefore, I am making
a proclamation.
This will be
a handmade Christmas.
We're not spending
any money on gifts.
They will be homemade
and, therefore, more personal
and more thoughtful.
But you can't do this!
Well, I think it's high time
we had a handmade Christmas.
You boys just don't appreciate
the holidays.
To you it's nothing
but a disgusting orgy
of materialism.
-But...
-No buts!
You're the ones
who turned your mother
into a ticking time bomb!
Oh, you just thank
your lucky stars
that she went off
on an innocent bystander!
So we had our Christmas feast
of oatmeal and hot dog buns.
Since then, we've
been waiting three hours
for Dad to come out
of the garage.
What is taking
him so long?
[whispering]
What are you talking about?
Nothing you'd
be interested in.
You don't know that.
If it's interesting to you guys,
it's gonna be interesting to me.
We were wondering
what nose hairs smell like.
Well, that's very interesting!
Hal, hurry up already!
In a minute.
LOIS:
Hal!
[grumbles]
All right, everyone
over by the tree.
[Hal laughing]
Open mine
first!
Okay, okay.
Let's see
what little Dewey
made for his dad.
Wow!
LOIS:
Where did you find that?
I never take
a good picture.
I went through every
box in the attic
and found that one.
I made the frame
with mementos of
your hobbies.
Wait. You made this frame?
Yeah. See it
has a little
golf club, a
fishing pole,
a poker hand.
I even pasted on the
Jumble you finished.
Dewey, this is really nice.
REESE:
Here, Mom, this
is from me.
Oh, it's so heavy.
Wow!
Reese, are these jams?
REESE:
And candies.
I had some sugar left over,
so I figured, why not?
It's Christmas.
You made this?!
Here, Mom. Here, Dad.
Oh, my God!
it's a clock.
-You made this?!
-I read up
on all-wood clocks and then
borrowed the tools
from wood shop.
See the gears?
They make different
patterns as they turn.
Oh, I'm very
impressed, boys.
You all worked so
hard on these gifts.
Open mine next.
It's a sonata I
composed for you.
Oh, I'll get to it.
It's your father's
turn to give something.
Uh...
my gift...
isn't here.
Not here?
What do you mean?
Well, we-we knew the boys
would really come
through with great gifts,
and any present that
could top what they
did can't be here...
[laughing]
can it?
Merry Chris...
You started without us?
Dad's about to give us
a really cool present!
Is it outside?
Let's find out.
Like a treasure hunt?
[high-pitched laughing]
Cool!
All right, let's go!
Oh.
Wow, Mom,
this is fantastic.
I am so happy
to be home for Christmas.
You said this house
was Satan's trash can.
You're quoting me
out of context.
So, Dad, where is it?
Are we supposed
to drive to it?
Yes! Yes!
You guessed
the first clue.
[laughing]
Everybody into the van.
Let's go!
LOIS:
Hal...
Merry Christmas, honey!
♪ Jingle bells,
jingle bells ♪
♪ Jingle all the way ♪
♪ Oh, what fun it is to ride
in a one-horse... ♪
Are we there yet?
MALCOLM:
Yeah, where are we going?
I know.
We're going to Disneyland.
It's a thousand times
better than Disneyland.
Cool!
[giggling]
What was that?
A handshake.
Now they've got
some lame, third-grade
secret handshake.
I think I got half of it.
We love Dad!
[both chanting]
We love Dad! We love Dad!
We love Dad!
HAL:
Rest stop.
Everybody out.
No eye contact
with strangers.
[chuckles]
[sighs]
Look at 'em scamper.
You don't need to...?
No.
♪ Here comes Santa Claus... ♪
[radio stops]
You couldn't have said
twice as good as Disneyland?
You saw those presents, Lois!
What was I supposed to do?
My presents were crap!
What did you make them?
-Lanyards.
-Still better
than what I had.
Look, I underestimated
these boys, Lois,
and they deserve to have
a really great Christmas.
How much money do we have?
-Zero.
-No, I mean everything,
credit cards, loose change,
everything?
Oh. Minus $512.
What?! Oh, for God sakes!
Can you think
of a Christmas reason
for stopping somewhere
I can sell blood?
Oh, Hal, don't worry about it.
It'll be okay.
You just need
to find something
that's a thousand
times better than Disneyland,
open on Christmas Day
and free.
Just because it's hard, Lois,
doesn't mean it's impossible.
I am going to
make this happen.
Hal, we don't even have
enough gas to get home.
Yes, we do.
I did all the
calculations, Lois.
We are exactly 40 miles
from the point of no return.
And I promise you
I will figure out
a plan by then.
If not, I will turn
the van around.
Just don't rat me out.
Please, honey.
It's Christmas.
I can't wait much longer.
Mom, is it really going
to be as good as Dad says?
Dewey, I think you'll remember
this day for a long time.
I think we'll all remember
this day for a very long time.
All right,
since no one wants
to race cigarette butts,
I'm outta here.
[sighs]
Francis, I have
to talk to you
about something.
It's weird, but lately
I kind of feel
like I'm being left out
by Reese and Dewey.
Aw, geez.
Look, I'm sorry.
You weren't supposed
to know about the beach trip.
-What?!
-Hey, geez, watch it!
What beach trip?!
I took Reese and Dewey
to the beach last summer.
I would've invited you,
but you were over at Stevie's.
He lives two blocks away!
You have to go by his house
to get to the beach!
Why is this happening?
I'm the brother
everybody likes the best.
What are you
talking about?
I'm the brother
everybody likes best.
I meant of the brothers
who are still at home.
That's Dewey.
What?
Where am I in
the pecking order?
Malcolm, I am not gonna stand
here in a public toilet
and rank me, Dewey,
Reese, Jamie and you
in order of popularity.
So are we getting close?
Now, now.
You're not going
to trick me
into giving it away.
It's a surprise.
[whispering]
Hal, you are five miles
from the point
of no return.
Look, I know we don't talk
about our emotions,
but I don't care anymore.
I'm just going
to lay it out there.
My feelings are hurt.
There, I said it.
They're hurt
because you guys are
systematically excluding me.
Being excluded
is extra hard for me
because I see
all the other places
I don't fit in,
and we're brothers.
I really want us
to be in this together.
What a gasbag.
Your feelings aren't hurt.
Your ego is bruised.
The reason
we exclude you sometimes
is because you're a drag.
You always have
to be the special one.
Even now, this
is all about
how you feel things
more deeply than everyone else.
Look, we love you.
We just need a break from you
every once in a while.
Okay, Hal...
Francis, can I see you up here
for a second, please?
I need your help with the radio.
What are you...?
I need to
borrow $1,800.
I'll pay you back
over the next six years
in monthly payments
of $39.50.
I have no money to give
these boys a Christmas gift
and I'm not even sure
where I'm driving.
I hate to ask you,
but I don't know
what else to do.
I love you.
Well, I guess this is as good
a time as any to tell you.
I got fired from my job.
I am totally broke.
What? You got fired
from the ranch?
It turns out the ATM
I was making all of Otto's
deposits into wasn't an ATM.
So sue me, right?
Anyway, he's suing me.
I don't know
what we're going to do.
You're not moving
back in!
There isn't room enough
in the house!
Besides, Piama doesn't want
to live with us.
Piama doesn't even know
about it.
She thinks I'm on vacation.
I've been acting
like the happiest man
in the world the last few weeks
just to hide it from her.
I have to say, I am a little
disappointed in you, Francis.
You can't hide
something like this
from the ones you love.
Honesty is
the cornerstone
of any healthy
relationship.
Well, I'm sorry
I can't help you.
Okay, Hal,
it's been 40 miles.
We are at the point
of no return.
Hal, turn around.
Ding... ding... ding...
ding... ding...
Let's get out
and stretch our legs.
You coming, Malcolm?
You sure? I might
accidentally talk about myself.
You mean like just now?
Hal, what are
you doing?
I'm buying time.
Look, I don't know
how you got me
to go along with this,
but that's it.
The Christmas lie is over.
60 more seconds, Lois.
You can time me.
I'm not...!
Fine.
[ sighs]
-Whoa! Nice rides.
-Yeah.
The fat lady at the car wash
rides one of these.
Nice going, Dewey!
I wasn't even touching it.
It was you!
What'd you do, man?!
MALCOLM:
Wait, wait!
Those guys didn't do it.
What are you
talking about?
I'm not going to
let these people
take the blame when
they didn't do it.
It was my dad.
He was trying
to teach me a lesson
so I wouldn't grow up
and be like you.
Malcolm, oh, my God,
that was awesome!
-That was so cool!
-Thanks!
Okay, honey,
you've got 20 seconds.
[whining]
Lois, there is going
to be a Christmas!
Hal, no!
Oh, no!
I seem to
have slipped
on an oil stain left here
by a negligent owner
or employee.
Hal!
[Lois screams]
[coughing]
Oh, my God!
Are you okay?
Yes, damn it!
[sighs]
Oh, thank goodness.
I don't have any insurance.
We both dodged a bullet.
After I sweep this up,
you're getting wiper
blades, on the house.
Hal...
You know what?
I saw a trail behind here
that leads up into the hills.
There's probably something
really great up there.
All we need is a few flashlights
to get started.
Hal, it's time for you
to face the boys
and tell them
what's going on.
Hal, they're good boys.
They forgave you for banjo camp;
they'll forgive you for this.
And I will try sharing
the blame with you,
but honey, this has got
your fingerprints all over it.
[ mutters]
You know, you're
a pretty good
brother after all.
Thanks. You look cold.
Take my jacket.
I think I could've
handled those bikers,
but with a baby
and a chick around,
you probably did the
right thing, Malcolm.
Thanks for thinking
of us, Reese.
What's this?
Nothing. Give me that.
It's a credit card receipt
from The Clockworks.
You bought those clocks?
You have a credit card?
Since when?
They sent it to me in the mail
a couple months ago.
They must've thought
I was old enough
after I won
that physics award.
So when I superglued
my eyelids shut,
and I was in the
emergency room,
we could've used
your credit card
instead of having
to call Mom?!
I'm not going to let you
jeopardize my credit rating.
I want to buy
a house someday.
Malcolm, you're a jerk.
Mom, Malcolm has
a credit card,
and he bought you
Christmas presents with it.
What?
Malcolm, you bought
those presents,
after everything
I've been through?
We all worked so hard
to make this
a special Christmas,
and you just took
a cheap shortcut!
Those clocks cost
50 bucks each!
I don't care
what they cost!
This isn't a competition,
Malcolm.
You know, all I really want
from you on Christmas is this!
I forgive you, son.
Okay, everybody,
listen up.
I don't want this
to ruin our trip.
Want to know
where we're going?
ALL:
Yeah.
Snow skiing on Mount Bundy!
[cheering]
DEWEY:
I love Mount Bundy.
[Hal chuckles
nervously]
That's a room
for the night,
ski passes
and equipment rentals.
Will you be putting that
on your credit card?
Let's give
it a shot.
[shrieking]
Oh, yes!
[laughs]
In your face!
Hal, this is the low point,
isn't it?
We're not going to sink
any further, are we?
What are you
talking about?
We've stolen
our son's credit card.
If it weren't for my rage
and your recklessness,
our kids might have
a fighting chance.
Lois, those are
the exact things
that make us
great parents.
If it wasn't for
your anger and
my recklessness,
we wouldn't be on
this amazing ski
vacation, would we?
You know, this just might be
our best Christmas ever.
Francis, I want you
to quit your job.
What?
Ever since we left
on this trip,
you've just seemed
so insanely happy.
I can't let you go
back to that job.
You've got to find
something else to do.
You're right.
You know, in fact, let's
not even go back to that ranch.
I'll call Otto
in the morning,
and if he doesn't
understand, tough.
Okay, so who wants
-some hot chocolate
by the fire, huh?
-Yeah!
Enjoy your stay,
Malcolm.
Thanks.
Captioned by Post Haste Digital